Background: Chrono Nutrition (CN) is a target focused dietary approach laying emphasis on meal timing and meal sequencing based on the body's natural circadian rhythms. Eating at the right time of day since food controls the body's cycles, increases metabolism, and aids in detoxifying is also important and known as nutrient timing. Delivering the right macronutrients at the right moment to maximize their utilization by the body is known as nutrient timing. The energy phase, the anabolic phase, and the adaptation phase are the three stages of nutrient timing in relation to exercise. Objective: The study aims at the studying the Knowledge, Attitude and Practices based on nutrient timing amongst the athletes. Methodology: The study was done using a well -planned questionnaire, through the filling of Google forms.59 individuals participated in the study. Among 59 participants, 41 were male and18 were female most of them being between the age of 15 to 25 years who are practicing sports actively Also, Google Forms has provided a better reach of the participants. Results and Discussion: The majority of participants 54.2% (32) were either aware of CN or diets based on nutrient timing from social media content or from recent internet searches or other players. The major misconception was that 73.6 % (43) of them believed only protein is required for recovery.100 % (59) showed a keen attitude on following CN or nutrient timingbased diet if it increases performance. When a question was asked to understand the attitude of participants with regard to carbohydrate consumption during weight loss 42.4% (25) of the participants did not show positive attitude. Of the participants, 28 (42.8%) did not adhere to a diet based on nutrients. A healthy habit of delaying tea and coffee consumption after a major meal was followed by 84.7% (50) of the participants. Conclusion: The study revealed that the participants were well informed about CN and had a positive attitude to follow it especially to improve their performance. The proof of meticulous planning, the consumption of whole foods, fortified foods, and dietary supplements are all included in nutrient timing -based diets. Following high -volume or severe exercise, timing of energy intake and the ratio of specific ingested macronutrients may help with recovery and tissue repair, boost muscle protein synthesis, and elevate mood states.